# SCoPEx-sim2
This is a simple kinematic simulation of a propeller-driven research balloon
platform written in C++ using
[Open Dynamics Engine](http://ode.org/wiki/index.php?title=Manual).
We will use this model to anticipate the stability of the platform and to tune
our control algorithms.

In contrast to arp-scopex-sim, which is a stand alone application, this
version is built within the [Monarch](https://github.com/nthallen/monarch)
framework to simulate the motions of the platform and report data to the
platform flight software in order to help develop control algorithms. Instead
of reading commands from a script file, this version will read them from
the instrument's command server.

The main feedback to the flight software will emulate the data we expect to
receive from our GNSS/AHRS system, including latitude, longitude, altitude
payload orientation (heading, pitch, roll) and various velocity and
acceleration values.

## Basic Operation

The model has a very simple organization:

  - Initialization
  - Main Loop
  
During the initialization, all parameters are assigned default values
currently based on our best estimates when the model was originally
created. After the default values are assigned, any commands received
before the start command are executed. These can change the values of
selected parameters.

In the main loop, the kinematic simulation is stepped, and commands are
executed from the command channel as they are received. The simulation
is stopped when the Quit command is received.

## Script Syntax

The script syntax is very simple. Each can be either a comment
(beginning with an octothorpe '#') or an instruction. Instruction lines
consist of an unsigned time delta value in seconds followed by a command.

Currently support commands include:

  - Noop
    - does nothing
  - Set \<parameter> \<value>
    - sets the specified parameter to the given value
  - Adjust \<parameter> \<value>
    - adds the value to the specified paramter
  - Quit
    - terminates the simulation

At present (3/22/20), the model is far from being in a completed state.
Many more (or all) parameters could easily be added to the scripting
language. Parameters are added to the scripting language in
SCoPEx::Init().

## Matlab Tools

The files in the Matlab directory provide various examples of how the
data generated by scopex-sim can be explored.

  - scopex.m:
    - a semi-interactive script that works with the 'doit' script
      to exercise the trajectory control algorithm.

  - scopex_load.m:
    - Loads scopex-sim output data into a useful data structure.

  - GetBodyData.m
  - GetJointData.m
  - GetSimVar.m:
    - Functions used by scopex_load and other scripts to organize
      scopex-sim output.

  - PlotBodyData.m
  - PlotJointData.m
  - PlotSimVar.m
    - Functions for displaying system data.

  - write_scp.m
    - Function for programmatically creating scopex-sim scripts.

  - shape.m:
    - A model of balloon shape that might be useful for estimating
      horizontal area for drag calculations
      
## Building
  - Make sure you have cmake installed
  - Download, build and install the [ode library](http://ode.org/wiki/index.php?title=Manual)
    - I recommend building with cmake
    - Let me know if you encounter problems
  - mkdir scopex-sim
  - cd scopex-sim
  - git clone https://github.com/nthallen/arp-scopex-sim.git git
  - mkdir build
  - cd build
  - cmake ../git
  - make
  - make install
